>> Sreenivasan: ALL AMERICANS
HAVE THE RIGHT TO MARRY.
A HISTORIC DAY AT THE SUPREME
COURT: JUSTICES FIND EQUAL
TREATMENT UNDER THE LAW FOR
SAME-SEX COUPLES.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD: TERROR STRIKES
ACROSS THREE CONTINENTS--
FROM THE BEACHES OF TUNISIA TO
THE FRENCH COUNTRYSIDE-- THE
CONTINUED THREAT OF VIOLENT
EXTREMISM.
THEN...
...MOURNERS PAY RESPECTS IN
SOUTH CAROLINA.
PRESIDENT OBAMAPEAK SS AT THE
FUNERAL OF A PASTOR AND STATE
SENATOR KILLED IN THE CHARLESTON
CHURCH SHOOTING.
BLINDED BY HATRED THE ALLEGED
KILLERS DOES NOT SEE THE GRACE
SURROUNDING REVEREND PINCKNEY
AND THAT BI BIBLE STOOD GROUP.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
MARK SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE A FULL WEEK
OF NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WILL NOW BE
THE LAW EVERYWHERE IN THE UNITED
STATES.
THE SUPREME COURT RULED FIVE TO
FOUR TODAY THAT SAME-SEX COUPLES
HAVE THE RIGHT TO MARRY.
36 STATES AND THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA ALREADY RECOGNIZE THAT
RIGHT.
UNDER THIS DECISION, THE
REMAINING 14 STATES HAVE TO DROP
THEIR BANS ON THE PRACTICE-- AN
OUTCOME THAT SPARKED WIDELY
VARYING REACTIONS OUTSIDE THE
COURT.
>> TODAY'S RULING FROM THE
SUPREME COURT AFFIRMS WHAT
MILLIONS ACROSS THIS COUNTRY
ALREADY KNOW TO BE TRUE IN OUR
HEARTS.
OUR LOVE IS EQUAL.
THAT THE FOUR WORDS ETCHED ONTO
THE FRONT OF SUPREME COURT EQUAL
JUSTICE UNDER ALL APPLY TO US
TOO.
>> WELL THE SUPREME COURT HAS
IMPOSED SAME SEX MARRIAGE ON THE
NATION ANDIS
THEY HAVE ISSUED THEIR DECISION
BUT IT DOES NOT END THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT MARRIAGE
IS AND WHY IT MATTERS FOR
CHILDREN FOR THE FUTURE OF OUR
SOCIETY.
AND WE WILL BE CONTINUING TO
STAND FOR MARRIAGE AS THE UNION
OF A MAN AND A WOMAN.
AND TO STAND FOR THE FREEDOM TO
SPEAK AND TO ACT CONSISTENT WITH
THAT UNDERSTANDING OF MARRIAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: SEVERAL
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS ALSO
CRITICIZED THE DECISION, AS DID
SOME REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES.
BUT AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID IT'S A DAY
WHEN JUSTICE "ARRIVES LIKE A
THUNDERBOLT."
>> THIS DECISION AFFIRMS WHAT
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS ALREADY
BELIEVE IN THEIR HEARTS: WHEN
ALL AMERICANS ARE TREATED AS
EQUAL WE ARE ALL MORE FREE.
THERE'S SO MUCH MORE WORK TO BE
DONE TO EXTEND THE FULL PROMISE
OF AMERICA TO EVERY AMERICAN,
BUT TODAY WE CAN SAY IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS THAT WE'VE MADE
OUR UNION A LITTLE MORE PERFECT.
>> Sreenivasan: NEWS OF THE
DECISION SET OFF CELEBRATIONS BY
GAY MARRIAGE ADVOCATES IN A
NUMBER OF CITIES.
AND AT LEAST EIGHT STATES BEGAN
ISSUING MARRIAGE LICENSES TO
SAME-SEX COUPLES.
WE'LL EXPLORE THE SUPREME
COURT'S DECISION IN DETAIL,
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THERE'S WORD POLICE HAVE KILLED
AN ESCAPED MURDERER IN NORTHERN
NEW YORK STATE AFTER A THREE
WEEK MANHUNT.
IT'S WIDELY REPORTED THAT
RICHARD MATT WAS SHOT DEAD NEAR
MALONE, NOT FAR FROM THE
CANADIAN BORDER.
POLICE ARE STILL PURSUING DAVID
SWEAT, WHO ESCAPED WITH MATT.
HUNDREDS OF OFFICERS HAVE BEEN
SEARCHING FOR THE PAIR.
THE HUNT INTENSIFIED IN THE LAST
FEW DAYS AFTER THEY FOUND ITEMS
THAT THE TWO MEN HAD LEFT
BEHIND.
TERROR ATTACKS LEFT A BLOODY
TOLL AROUND THE WORLD TODAY.
37 PEOPLE DIED WHEN A GUNMAN
OPENED FIRE AT A BEACH IN
TUNISIA, 27 MORE WERE KILLED IN
A SUICIDE BOMBING IN KUWAIT AND
A LONE ATTACKER IN FRANCE TRIED
TO BLOW UP A GAS PLANT.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT ON ALL
OF THIS LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
IN SYRIA, REPORTS SAY ISLAMIC
STATE GUNMEN KILLED AT LEAST 145
CIVILIANS IN A NEW ROUND OF
FIGHTING.
A SYRIAN HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAYS
THE MASSACRE FOLLOWED AN ATTACK
ON THE KURDISH-HELD TOWN OF
KOBANI, ON THE TURKISH BORDER.
FIGHTING CONTINUED THERE AS
KURDISH FIGHTERS SURROUNDED THE
ISIS GUNMEN.
AL-SHABAAB MILITANTS IN SOMALIA
HAVE STAGED A NEW STRIKE ON
AFRICAN UNION TROOPS.
LOCAL OFFICIALS SAY THE
MILITANTS EXPLODED A CAR BOMB
AND STORMED A REMOTE BASE,
KILLING 25 SOLDIERS.
AL-SHABAAB HAS VOWED TO STEP UP
ATTACKS DURING THE MUSLIM HOLY
MONTH OF RAMADAN, NOW UNDER WAY.
AND BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, WALL
STREET FAILED TO FIND MUCH
DIRECTION.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 56 POINTS TO CLOSE NEARLY
17,950, BUT THE NASDAQ FELL 30
POINTS AND THE S&P 500 LOST LESS
THAN A POINT.
FOR THE WEEK, ALL THREE INDEXES
WERE DOWN A FRACTION.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR: A
DEEPER LOOK AT TODAY'S HISTORIC
DECISION ON MARRIAGE AT THE
SUPREME COURT, TERROR ATTACKS
KILL DOZE ON NSTHREE CONTINENTS,
MOURNING THOSE KILLED IN THE
CHARLESTON SHOOTING, MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS AND A NEW
DOCUMENTARY LOOKS BACK AT A TIME
WHEN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
TARGETED GAY EMPLOYEES.
TODAY'S DECISION ON MARRIAGE
SENT WAVES OF REACTION ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
BEGINNING WITH A LARGE CROWD
GATHERED ON THE SUPREME COURT
STEPS.
POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
DESJARDINS TAKES US THERE.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE
DECISION FROM A VERY PERSONAL
VIEW.
THE VIEW OF TOM FULTON AND
ROBERT WESTOVER FIRST HEARING
WORD, THEN GETTING CONFIRMATION
THAT THE SUPREME COURT HAD
UPHELD THEIR 15-YEAR MARRIAGE.
>> IT'S JUST VERY, VERY
EXCITING.
>> WE FEEL LIKE IT'S JUST A
SURREAL MOMENT.
IT'S HARD TO PUT IT INTO WORDS,
I MEAN TEN MINUTES AGO WE WERE
SECOND CLASS CITIZENS AND NOW
WE'RE EQUAL IN THE EYES OF THIS
NATION, THIS ENTIRE NATION.
>> Reporter: THE CROWD WAS
LARGELY SUPPORTERS OF SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE.
BUT THE DECISION WAS AOLS
PERSONAL FOR OPPONENTS STANDING
ON THE STEPS.
INCLUDING THESE STUDENTS ON A
CATHOLIC MISSION FROM NEBRASKA.
>> I'M AGAINST GAY MARRIAGE, I
AM DISAPPOINTED THIS HAPPENED.
I BELIEVE MARRIAGE IS BETWEEN
ONE MAN AND ONE WOMAN.
I BELIEVE THIS WILL HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT TO SOCIETY,
AND FAMILIES AND EVERYTHING THAT
WE KNOW.
>> Reporter: ALL THOSE GATHERED-
- NO MATTER THE SIDE THEY TOOK--
WERE LOOKING TO THE FUTURE AND
WHAT THE RULING MEANS FOR
AMERICA.
>> OUR LIVES HAVE CHANGED
FOREVER, AND NOT ONLY HAVE OUR
LIVES CHANGED FOREVER, BUT THESE
YOUNG GAY FOLKS, GA LESY,BIAN,
TRANSGENDER PEOPLE, THEY ARE ALL
GONNA KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE
FULL INCLUSIVE CITIZENS.
>> Reporter: AS SAME-SEX
SUPPORTERS CELEBRATE, SOME
OPPONENTS ARE NOW LOOKING AWAY
FROM THE COURT TOWARD A POSSIBLE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO
TRY AND OVERRULE TODAY'S
DECISION.
LISA DESJARDINS, PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ON THE
SUPREME COURT'S LANDMARK
DECISION WE'RE JOINED-- AS
ALWAYS-- BY MARCIA COYLE OF THE
"NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL," WHO WAS
IN THE COURTROOM TODAY.
HOW DID WE GET TO THIS DECISION.
>> OKAY, HARI, FIRST I WOULD
LIKE TO SAY PEOPLE WHO ARE LIST
INK AND REALLY INTERESTED, THEY
SHOULD READ THE DECISION,
THEY'RE EASY TO READ, UP ON THE
COURT'S WEBSITE AND I THINK
PEOPLE WILL ENJOY READING THEM.
I LOOK AT JUSTICE KENNEDY'S
MAJORITY OPINION IN BASICALLY
THREE PARTS.
FIRST HE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THE
TRADITION OF MARRIAGE HAS BEEN
BETWEEN A MAN AND A WOMAN FOR A
MILLENNIA.
BUT HE SAID THE NATION'S
UNDERSTANDING OF MARRIAGE HAS
CHANGED AS NEW GENERATIONS
EMBRACE THE DEVELOPMENT OF
FREEDOM.
THEN HE MOVED TO MARRIAGE IS A
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT OF THE
CONSTITUTION AND HE SAID THERE
ARE BASICALLY FOUR PRINCIPLES
THAT SHOW WHY IT'S A FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHT AND WHERE THEY APPLY WITH
EQUAL FORCE TO SAME SEX COUPLES.
FIRST, ARE HE SAID, INHERENT IN
THE RIGHT TO MARRY IS THE RIGHT
TO PERSONAL CHOICE.
DECISIONS ABOUT MARRIAGE ARE
AMONG THE MOST IMPORTANT, MOST
INTIMATE THAT AN INDIVIDUAL CAN
MAKE REGARDLESS OF SEXUAL
ORIENTATION.
THE RIGHT TO MARRIAGE ALSO
INCLUDES THE RIGHT TO INTIMATE
ASSOCIATIONS.
BACK IN 2003, THE COURT STRUCK
DOWN STATE ANTI-SODOMY LAWS
SAYING THAT GAYS AND LESBIANS
HAD A RIGHT TO ENJOY INTIMATE
ASSOCIATIONS.
THE RIGHT TO MARRIAGE PROTECTS
FAMILIES AND CHILDREN.
IT GIVES THEM PREDICTABILITY,
RESPECTABILITY, STABILITY.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
CHILDREN, JUSTICE KENNEDY SAID,
ARE BEING RAISED BY GAY COUPLES.
AND FEEL IF THEIR PARENTS WANT
MARRIAGE, THAT THEIR FAMILY
UNITS ARE SOMEHOW LESS ARE THAN
THOSE OF OPPOSITE SEX COUPLES.
AND FINALLY HE SAID, MARRIAGE IS
THE KEYSTONE TO OUR SOCIAL
ORDER.
IT COMES WITH BENEFITS AND
OBLIGATIONS THAT THESE COUPLES
WANT.
HE MOVED THEN TO THE
CONSTITUTION.
THE RIGHT TO MARRY, THE
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT IS PROTECTED
BY THE LIBERTY AND EQUAL
PROTECTION GUARANTEED UNDER THE
14TH AMENDMENT.
STATE BANS ON SAME SEX MARRIAGE
TREAT GAY COUPLES UNEQUALLY AND
THE STATES HAVE OFFERED NO
PETITION JUST OCCASIONS FOR THAT
UNEQUAL TREATMENT.
FINALLY, THE CONSTITUTION
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT TO MARRY
INCLUDES GAY COUPLES.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S A
SECTION FROM THE MAJORITY
OPINION.
IT SAYS IT WOULD MISUNDERSTAND
THESE MEN AND WOMEN TO SAY THEY
DISRESPECT THE IDEA OF MARRIAGE.
THEIR HOPE IS NOT TO BE
CONDEMNED, TO LIVE IN
LONELINESS, EXCLUDED FROM ONE OF
CIVILIZATION'S OLDEST
INSTITUTIONS.
THEY ASKED FOR EQUAL DIGNITY IN
THE EYES OF THE LAW, THE
CONSTITUTION GRANTS THEM THAT
RIGHT.
HE ALSO, PART OF THIS HE
ACTUALLY QUOTED SORT OF THE
DECISION FROM 12 YEARS AGO.
>> YES, HE DID.
IN FACT WITH JUSTICE KENNEDY IN
PARTICULAR, DIGNITY AND LIBERTY
ARE SORT OF ESSENTIAL TO THINKS
JURORJURORSI DON'JURISPRUDENCE.
THREW PRIOR DECISIONS HE WROTE
AND THAT'S WHAT HE WAS RELYING
ON HERE, THE DIGNITY THAT
MARRIAGE CONFERS.
Sre>>enivasan: THERE'S ALSO
FOUR THAT DIDN'T VOTE FOR THIS
INDIVIDUALLY WROTE.
I WANT TO READ SOMETHING FROM
SCALIA.
THIS PRACTICE FROM
CONSTITUTIONAL DIVISION FROM AN
UNELECTED COMMITTEE OF NINE
ALWAYS ACCOMPANIED AS IT IS
TODAY BY EXTRAVAGANT PRAISE OF
LIBERTY ROBS PEOPLE OF THE
LIBERTY OF THE INDEPENDENCE THE
FREEDOM TO GOVERN THEMSELVES.
>> THE SORT OF UNIFYING SCENE
THROUGH ALL FOUR SEPARATE
DISSENTS IS THIS WAS A DECISION
THAT BELONGS IN THE DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS NOT TO BE MADE BY THE
COURTS.
JUSTICE KENNEDY DID ADDRESS
THAT.
ALSO THE DISSENSE ALSO SAID THE
MAJORITY OPINION IS CUTTING OFF
A DEBATE THAT SHOULD CONTINUE
WITHIN THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
JUSTICE KENNEDY RESPONDED FIRST
BY SAYING THIS IS NOT A NEW
DEBATE.
THE NATION HAS BEEN DEBATING
THIS FOR AT LEAST 40 YEARS.
THERE HAVE BEEN COUNTLESS
STUDIES OF GAY COUPLES'
MARRIAGES.
COURT CASES, COURT DECISIONS.
AND HE ALSO SAID, WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT A FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT AND WE
DON'T LEAVE TO THE ELECTORATE OR
TO THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS THE
DECISIONS ABOUT FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION.
>> Sreenivasan: VERY BRIEFLY,
WHAT WAS IT LIKE IN THE
COURTROOM.
>> NO ONE REALLY EXPECTED THE
DECISION TODAY.
THE COURTS, I CAN'T CALL IT A
TRADITION BUT IT HAS IN PAST
PRACTICE, THE BIGGEST DECISIONS
HAVE COME OUT ON THE FINAL DAY
WHICH IS GOING TO BE MONDAY.
BUT AS SOON AS JUSTICE KENNEDY,
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS ANNOUNCED
JUSTICE KENNEDY WOULD HAVE THE
FIRST OPINION, WE KNEW IT WAS
PROBABLY GOING TO BE SAME SEX
MARRIAGE.
IT WAS AN EMOTIONAL MOMENT.
OF THE LAWYERS IN THE SUPREME
COURT BAR WHO WERE SITTING
THERE, HAD WORKED ON THESE
CASES.
THEY SAW WHERE JUSTICE KENNEDY
WAS HEADING.
THERE WAS TEARS AFTER THE
DECISION WAS ANNOUNCED.
THERE WERE HUGS AND HANDSHAKES.
>> Sreenivasan: THANK YOU AS
ALWAYS, MARCIA COYLE.
>> MY PLEASURE, HARI.
AND FOR A BROADER LOOK AT
TODAY'S HISTORIC DECISION.
AND TO JEFFREY BROWN:
>> Brown: AND JOINING ME NOW TO
FURTHER EXPLORE THE LEGAL AND
CULTURAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE
COURT'S DECISION WE ARE JOINED
BY SARAH WARBELOW, LEGAL
DIRECTOR FOR THE HUMAN RIGHTS
CAMPAIGN, AN L.G.B.T. RIGHTS
ORGANIZATION, AUSTIN NIMOCKS, HE
IS THE SENIOR COUNSEL AT THE
ALLIANCE DEFENDING FREEDOM, A
CONSERVATIVE LEGAL GROUP, BISHOP
HARRY JACKSON WHO SERVES AS
SENIOR PASTOR OF HOPE CHRISTIAN
CHURCH IN BELTSVILLE, MARYLAND.
LET ME START WITH YOU SARAH
WARBELOW.
A 5-4 VOTE BITTERLY CONTENTED.
HOW IMPORTANT IN LEGAL HISTORY
IS THIS.
>> THIS IS THE END.
GUARANTEEING SAME SEX COUPLES
ACCESS TO MARRIAGE IN EVERY
CORNER OF THIS COUNTRY.
IT'S A CRITICAL DECISION,
BRINGING RIGHTS, BENEFITS AND
OBLIGATIONS THAT WILL STRENGTHEN
FAMILIES ALL OVER THE NATION.
>> AUSTIN ANYMOR NIMOCKS, SAME N
TO YOU.
>> THE SUPREME COURT
HISTORICALLY NEVER HAD THE LAST
WORD ON ANYTHING IN THE HISTORY.
THE LAST WORD BELONGS TO THE
PEOPLE AND THE PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO CONTINUE DEBATE THIS QUESTION
ABOUT MARRIAGE LONG AFTER THE
SUPREME COURT'S OPINION.
WE KNEW BEFORE THE FACT BEFORE
IT CAME OUT BECAUSE TENS OF
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS STILL
BELIEVE DEEPLY MARRIAGE IS STILL
ONE MAN AND ONE WOMAN.
MOTHERS AND FATHERS, MEN AND
WOMEN BOTH HAVE THE HUMILITY --
HUMANITY MATTER.
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
DEBATE THIS.
WE SAW A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT NOW INTRODUCED IN
CONGRESS.
SO THIS DEBATE IS NOT GOING AWAY
ANY TIME SOON.
>> Brown: WE'RE GOING TO COME
BACK TO THAT.
LET ME COME BACK TO YOU KEVIN
JOHNSON, IT AFFECTS YOU
PERSONALLY.
SO GIVE ME A PERSONAL RESPONSE.
>> TODAY'S DECISION WASFLECTIVEW
PROGRESSIVE WE'VE COME AS A
NATION.
I FEEL THAT YOU KNOW, ARE THE
SUPREME COURT MADE THE RIGHT
DECISION TODAY.
OUR PARENTS HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
SEEN AS SECOND CLASS CITIZENS
AND THEY'VE ALWAYS FELT LIKE
SECOND CLASS CITIZENS.
AND TODAY'S DECISIONS IT'S LIKE
THEY ARE JUST LIKE EVERYBODY
ELSE AND THEY DESERVE THE SAME
RIGHTS AND PROMISE THAT A
MARRIED COUPLE GETS TO HAVE.
>> Brown: IMMEDIATE
CONSEQUENCES FOR YOUR FAMILY.
>> IMMEDIATE CONSEQUENCES NO BUT
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE A WEDDING
RECEPTION.
>> Brown: BISHOP JACKION FOR
YOU PERSONALLY HOW DO YOU SEE
TODAY'S DECISION.
>> I WAS DISAPPOINTED 60 MILLION
IDEAS, CONCERNS WERE DISREGARD
DISREGARDED.
MY REAL CONCERN IS WHERE DOES
THE LINE STOP WHERE YOU HAVE AN
OVERCOMPENSATION AND WHEN
SUPPRESSION BEGINS TO HAPPEN.
MEANING THAT THERE IS BUSH BACK.
BACK-- PUSH BACK.
RIGHT NOW WE PURN WONDER WHO ISG
TO CONDUCT TM AHEND HOW FREE
WILL WE BE.
IN HOUSTON FOLKS SAID WE WANT TO
SEE THE SURMONTHS OF PASTORS,
PREACH A CERTAIN WAY WE WANT TO
COME AFTER YOU.
SAN ANTONIO FOLKS SAID THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO WON'T GET CONTRACTS
BECAUSE THERE'S A CHURCH THAT
PREACHES ABOUT TRADITIONAL
MARRIAGE, THEREFORE WE'RE NOT
GOING TO LET YOU HAVE A JOB OR
CONTRACT OR AN OPPORTUNITY.
SO THERE CAN BE FOLLOWING
PROBLEMS WE NEED TO FACE.
>> Brown: YOU'RE SITTING NEXT
TO KEVIN RIGHT NOW AND WHAT HE
SAID ABOUT HIS FAMILY.
WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE TO HIM?
>> WELL, I DON'T TOTALLY
UNDERSTAND THE PARALLELISM, IF
YOU WILL, BETWEEN THE BLACKS OR
WHITE'S MOVEMENT OF THE PAST.
I THINK THAT GAYS HAVE COME A
LOT FURTHER.
ALL CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUE WERE
SALARIES, OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE
MONEY, EDUCATION.
ACCESS TO PUBLIC FACILITIES.
THERE'S A LITANY OF FIVE THINGS
THAT DON'T SEEM TO BE THE KIND
OF OVERT DISCRIMINATION.
IF ANYTHING, IN THESE DAYS,
OKAY, GAYS HAVE A LOT OF RIGHTS.
I'M LOOKING AT THAT FROM MY
PERCEPTION BROWN BROW.
>> Brown: KEVIN HOW DO YOU
RESPOND.
>> I HAVE A GOOD EXAMPLE OF GAY
PARENTS NOT HAVING RIGHTS.
MY 16 YEAR OLD BROTHER, HE
WANTED TO GO GET HIS DRIVER'S
PERMITS.
ONE OF MY DADS TOOK HIM TO GET
HIS DRIVER'S PERMIT AND THE
OTHER ONE WHO WAS HIS ADOPTED
FATHER COULD NOT GET OFF WORK.
SO MY DAD TAKES HIM TO THE DMV
TO GET HIS LICENSE.
THEY TURN HIM AWAY AND SAY
YOU'RE NOT THE ADOPTIVE PARENT
AND YOU CAN'T PROVE YOU'RE THE
AWE DATAIVE PARENT SO HE CAN'T
GET HIS LICENSE.
SO MY BROTHER HAD TO WAIT SIX
WEEKS FOR MY OTHER DAD WHO IS
HIS ADOPTED PARENT TO GET OFF
WORK TO TAKE HIM TO THE DMV.
AND YOU KNOW, IT COULD HAVE JUST
BEEN A SIMPLE PROCESS WHERE MY
BROTHER COULD HAVE BEEN
IMMEDIATELY GOT I HIS DRIVER'S
PERMIT AND HE COULDN'T.
>> NOT A LIFE AND DEATH
SITUATION.
I'M CONCERNED THE TRIVIA -- I
DO LIEVBEE IN HUMAN DIGNITY AND
THE IMPORTANCE OF PEOPLE.
>> Brown: LET ME BRING OUR
LEGAL EXPERTS.
WHAT ABOUT CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS
TODAY.
HE ESSENTIALLY SAID, GO AHEAD
AND CELEBRATE IF YOU WANT BUT DO
NOT CELEBRATE THE CONSTITUTION
BECAUSE THE CONSTITUTION WAS NOT
INVOLVED IN THIS DECISION.
>> THE CONSTITUTION ABSOLUTELY
WAS INVOLVED IN THIS DECISION.
AND THE MAJORITY OPINION MADE
THAT CLEAR.
THIS IS ABOUT EQUAL TREATMENT
UNDER THE LAW.
AND THERE ARE VERY REAL HARMS
THAT COME FROM PEOPLE BEING
DENIED ACCESS TO MARRIAGE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAS
HAPPENED ALL OVER THIS COUNTRY,
SAME SEX COUPLES WHO END UP IN
THE HOSPITAL AND ARE UNABLE TO
MAKE MEDICAL DECISIONS FOR THEIR
PARTNER, THEIR SPOUSE, THIS
CRITICAL EVERY DAY MOMENT THAT
REALLY ARE LIFE AND DEATH.
AND INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE LGBT
EXPERIENCE PLOIMGHT
DISCRIMINATION, HOUSING
DISCRIMINATION, EXECUTION WITH
EDUCATION.
IT IS A SYSTEMATIC PROBLEM FOR
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
>> Brown: AUSTIN NIMOCKS YOUR
ARGUMENT IS THIS SHOULD BE LEFT
TO LAWYERS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IF YOU HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
HOSPITAL VISITATION, WE DON'T
HAVE TO REDIVINE THE ENTIRE
INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE FOR THE
ENTIRE COUNTRY TO RESOLVE THAT
PROBLEM.
AND WE DIDN'T SEE EQUAL
TREATMENT HERE.
WHAT WE SAW WAS FIVE LAWYERS
TAKING A DEBATE, AN YO EARNEST
DEBATE AWAY FROM MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS.
THAT'S NOT EQUAL TREATMENT.
IN A DEMOCRACY WHERE WE HAVE
HEATED IDEAS AND IMPORTANT AND
IMPASSIONED IDEAS, WE RESPECT
ALL THE VIEW POINT AND WE PUT
THEM TOGETHER AND WE REVOLVE
THEM DEMOCRATICALLY.
WE DON'T ISSUE EQUAL TREATMENT
BY TAKING A DEBATE AWAY FROM THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AND A COURT MAKING LAW AND
CHOOSING SIDES WHICH IS EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED TODAY.
THE COURT MADE A NEW FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHT.
IT CHOSE SIDES, AND IT TOOK THIS
DEBATE AWAY FROM MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS WHO WERE INVOLVED IN
IT.
THAT'S A SAD DAY.
>> Brown: I WANT TO GO BACK
TO SOMETHING THAT WAS SAID
EARLIER.
DO YOU SEE THIS THE LAW
ESSENTIALLY CATCHING UP WITH THE
CULTURE.
>> YES.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU SEE AT
YOUR COLLEGE CAMPUS.
WHAT DO YOU SEE AROUND YOU.
>> THIS DAY AND AGE, THIS
GENERATION IS A LOT MORE
ACCEPTING OF PEOPLE FOR WHO THEY
ARE AND WHAT THEY ARE.
I FEEL LIKE THE SUPREME COURT'S
DECISION WAS REALLY LOOKING I
GUESS AT THE FUTURE.
AND YOU KNOW, THEY WERE MAKING
THEIR DECISION BASED ON WHERE
WE'RE MOVING AND WHERE WE'RE
GOING TOWARDS.
I FEEL LIKE A LOT MORE PEOPLE
ESPECIALLY WHERE I GO TO COLLEGE
THEY'RE A LOT MORE OPEN AND A
LOT MORE OF JUST ACCEPTING OF
OTHER PEOPLE AND PEOPLE AREN'T
AFRAID TO BE THEMSELVES.
I FEEL LIKE THE DECISION TODAY
WAS REALLY SENDING A MESSAGE.
>> Brown: BISHOP JOHNSON, DO
YOU ALSO SEE THAT CULTURAL SHIFT
THAT IN YOUR CASE THINK SHOULD
BE RESISTED.
WHAT DO YOU SEE HAPPENING IN OUR
COUNTRY.
>> AFRICAN AMERICANS ARE STILL
PRETTY MUCH AGAINST THE
MAJORITY, AGAINST SAME SEX
MARRIAGE NOT BECAUSE I THINK
THEY ARE PREJUDICED AGAINST
SOMEONE BECAUSE OF THE FABRIC OF
HOW PEOPLE DWELL TOGETHER IN
MARRIAGE OR NOT, IS WANING.
COHABITATION, THE PRIMARY WAY
THAT PEOPLE LIVE TOGETHER IN
AMERICA TODAY, MARRIAGE IS AN
INSTITUTION IS BECOMING MORE AND
MORE DEVALUED.
THESE KINDS OF DECISIONS CAUSE
PEOPLE TO THINK IN DIFFERENT
WAYS ABOUT FOUNDATIONAL IN STAW
TO GOES.
WE NEED TO GET TO FAMILY
STRENGTH AND HOW TO GET THERE
FROM HERE IS UNCLEAR.
>> Brown: YOU'RE ARGUING FOR
FAMILY STRENGTH, RIGHT.
>> MY FAMILY HAS A LOT OF
STRENGTH.
MY PARENTS HAVE BEEN TOGETHER
FOR 24 YEARS.
AND I'VE BEEN RAISED IN THAT
HOUSEHOLD, I'M 12 20 YEARS OLD.
I'VE BEEN RAISED IN THAT
HOUSEHOLD FOR 20 YEARS.
IT TAKES A SPECIAL KIND OF
PERSON TO GO THROUGH WHAT
THEY'VE GONE THROUGH AS A
COUPLE.
I CAN RECALL WHEN I WAS TEN
YEARS OLD GOING TO MY FIRST --
AND THEY WERE BANNING THINGS.
HERE WE ARE 11 YEARS LATER AND I
GET TO WITNESS THE SUPREME COURT
RULING IN FAVOR OF MARRIAGE
EQUALITY.
IT'S A POWERFUL THING.
>> Brown: LET ME COME BACK.
WE JUST HAVE A MINUTE TO OUR
LEGAL EXPERTS.
SARAH WARBELOW YOU SAID YOU
THOUGHT THIS WAS THE END.
IS IT REALLY THE END.
ARE THERE NOT MORE FIGHTS TO BE
HAD IN WORKPLACE AND OTHER
AREAS.
>> MARRIAGE EQUALITY BUT THERE
ARE MANY MORE ISSUES FOR THE
LGBF COMMUNITY.
EMPLOYMENT, HOUSING EDUCATION,
EVEN ACCESS TO CREDIT.
WE DON'T HAVE CLEAR CONSISTENT
FEDERAL LAW THAT GUARANTEES THE
PROTECTIONS THAT ARE NECESSARY
FOR PEOPLE TO LIVE THEIR DAILY
LIVES.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC SUPPORTS IT.
POLL AFTER POLL SHOWS 80% OF
AMERICANS SUPPORTING
NON-DISCRIMINATION PROTECTION
AND EVERY DAY THAT GOES BY, MORE
AND MORE AMERICANS LOOK FOR
EQUITY AS WALL.
>> Brown: HOW DO YOU SEE THE
LEGAL BATTLE GOING FROM HERE.
>> WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
DEBATE MARRIAGE AND TALK ABOUT
RIGHTS OF CONNION CONSCIOUS FORE
IN AMERICA WHO STILL BELIEVE
MARRIAGE IS BETWEEN ONE MAN AND
ONE WOMAN AND TO BELIEVE AN ACT
UPON THOSE BELIEFS.
KEVIN BROUGHT A GREAT STORY
TODAY.
THERE ARE KIDS WHO HAVE BEEN
RAISED BY SAM SEX COUPLES WHO
HAVE A DIFFERENT STORY LIKE
HEATHER WHO SAID SHE ACHED FOR
THE FATHER SHE NEVER KNEW.
WHAT'S SAD ABOUT TODAY'S
DECISION IS THAT THE SUPREME
COURT DECIDED TO GO WITH ONE SET
OF STORIES AND DISCOUNT OTHER
STORESTORIES THAT DO MATTER.
WE HAVE THINGS THAT WERE HURTING
AND THEY NEEDED TO BE HEARD ANDE
NOT GOING TO HEAR THEM ANYMORE.
>> Brown: AUSTIN ANYMORE UKS,
HAIRY JACK SEAN, SAYY WARBELOW,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> Sreenivasan: WE RETURN NOW TO
THE DEADLY ATTACKS IN NORTH
AFRICA, IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
IN FRANCE TODAY.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM RECOUNTS A
BLOODY DAY OVERSEAS.
>> Reportr: TeHREE ATTACKS,
THREE DIFFERENT CONTINENTS,
DOZENS DEAD.
IT WAS A DAY FILLED WITH TERROR-
- FROM A BEACH IN TUNISIA, TO A
MOSQUE IN KUWAIT TO A FACTORY IN
FRANCE.
THE KILLING IN THE TUNISIAN
RESORT OF SOUSSE WAS THE
EVER.
A GUNMAN DISGUISED AS A TOURIST
PULLED AN ASSAULT RIFLE AND
OPENED FIRE ON SUNBATHERS AT A
BEACHFRONT HOTEL.
BEACHFRONT HOTEL. >> (
translated): I CAME THIS
>> (translated): I CAME
THIS MORNING TO SEE MY FRIEND AT
HIS
MORNING TO SEE MY FRIEND AT HIS
OFFICE.
THEY TOLD ME TO WAIT OUTSIDE
THAT I WASN'T ALLOWED TO GO IN.
I WENT OUTSIDE AND I FOUND
GUNFIRE.
HE KEPT FIRING AROUND THE BEACH
THEN CAME TO THE SWIMMING POOL.
>> Reporter: THE DEAD INCLUDED
TUNISIANS, BRITONS, GERMANS AND
BELGIANS.
THE RAMPAGE ENDED WHEN POLICE
KILLED THE GUNMAN.
TUNISIA HAS MANAGED A DEMOCRATIC
TRANSITION SINCE THE ARAB SPRING
BEGAN HERE SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
BUT TODAY ITS PRESIDENT SAID THE
ATTACKS WERE A WARNING
FOR HIS NATION, ONE THAT'S
EXPORTED MORE EXTREMIST FIGHTERS
TO IRAQ AND SYRIA THAN ANY OTHER
COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. >> (
translated): WE HAVE
>> (translated): WE
HAVE REPEATEDLY SAID THAT
TUNISIA IS
REPEATEDLY SAID THAT TUNISIA IS
IN A WAR AGAINST TERRORISM.
THIS WAR DOES NOT ONLY CONCERN
THE POLICE OR THE ARMY THAT PAID
THE HIGHER PRICE AND WAS OFTEN
TARGETED, TODAY WE ARE REMINDED
THAT THE TUNISIAN PEOPLE AS A
WHOLE ARE INVOLVED.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, IN
KUWAIT, A SUICIDE BOMBER
UNLEASHED THAT COUNTRY'S FIRST
DOMESTIC TERROR ATTACK IN MORE
THAN 20 YEARS.
IT HAPPENED AT ONE OF THE
LARGEST SHIITE MOSQUES IN KUWAIT
CITY.
WITNESSES SAID WORSHIPPERS WERE
STANDING SHOULDER TO SHOULDER IN
GROUP PRAYER, WHEN THE BLAST
RIPPED THROUGH THE MOSQUE.
RIPPED THROUGH THE MOSQUE. >> (
translated): I CAN SEE
>> (translated): I CAN
SEE THAT ALL THE MUSLIMS ARE
DYING
THAT ALL THE MUSLIMS ARE DYING
BY TERRORISM, THEY ARE NOT
TARGETING A SECT, BUT ALL THE
ARAB AND MUSLIM NATIONS.
WE ARE NOT SAFE ANYMORE, NEITHER
IN OUR HOUSES NOR IN THE
MOSQUES, AND WE ARE CALLING UPON
THE ISLAMIC COUNTRIES TO FIGHT
TERRORISM.
>> Reporter: A BRANCH OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS ATTACK.
AND, IN SOUTHEASTERN FRANCE,
THE TARGET WAS A U.S.-OWNED GAS
PLANT, LESS THAN A HUNDRED MILES
FROM THE SWISS BORDER.
A MAN WITH TIES TO ISLAMIST
RADICALS RAMMED A CAR INTO GAS
CANISTERS, SETTING OFF AN
EXPLOSION THAT INJURED TWO
PEOPLE.
INVESTIGATORS LATER FOUND AT THE
SITE THE SEVERED HEAD OF THE
MAN'S EMPLOYER, ALONG WITH AN
FLAGS WITH ARABIC INSCRIPTIONS.
FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE IMMEDIATELY LEFT A
SUMMIT IN BRUSSELS, RETURNED TO
PARIS AND RAISED THE THREAT
LEVEL IN THE REGION TO ITS
HIGHEST POINT.
HIGHEST POINT. >> (
translated): WE NEED TO
>> (translated): WE
NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT ALL
VERIFICATIONS
MAKE SURE THAT ALL VERIFICATIONS
CAN BE MADE, ALL CHECKS CAN BE
CARRIED OUT, IN DIFFERENT SITES,
AT STATIONS, AT INDUSTRIAL
SITES.
THERE CAN BE NO DOUBT ABOUT THE
ABILITY OF OUR COUNTRY TO
PROTECT ITSELF AND BE VIGILANT.
>> Reporter: THE SUSPECT WAS
ARRESTED, ALONG WITH HIS WIFE
AND ONE OTHER PERSON.
IN WASHINGTON, STATE DEPAMENTRT
SPOKESMAN JOHN KIRBY SAID
THERE'S NO INDICATION THE DAY'S
EVENTS WERE COORDINATED "ON A
TACTICAL LEVEL," BUT HE ALSO
SAID THIS:
>> THERE IS A COMMON THREAD OF
TERRORISM THROUGHOUT THEM,
CLEARLY.
AND AT THE VERY LEAST,
REGARDLESS OF WHO CLAIMS
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEM,
CERTAINLY AT THE VERY LEAST
THEY'RE A REPRESENTATION OF THE
CONTINUED THREAT OF VIOLENT
EXTREMISM.
>> Reporter: THE THREE ATTACKS
CAME JUST DAYS AFTER ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS URGED FOLLOWERS
TO STAGE "CALAMITIES FOR
NONBELIEVERS" DURING THE MUSLIM
HOLY MONTH OF RAMADAN.
FOR MORE ON THESE ATTACKS, I'M
JOINED BY PETER NEUMANN.
HE'S THE FOUNDER AND DIRECTOR OF
THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR THE
STUDY OF RADICALIZATION AND
POLITICAL VIOLENCE.
PETER, I WONDER IF YOU WOULD
JU GIVSTE ME YOUR INITIAL
REACTION TO THESE THREE ATTACKS.
>> I THINK IT'S HORRIBLE, IT'S
AN INDICATION OF THE ISLAMIC
STATE INSPIRING TERRORIST
ATTACKS ACROSS THE WORLD.
ALL OF THESE THREE ATTRACTS WERE
QUITE DIFFERENT IN NATURE AND IN
TACTIC.
BUT THEY WERE APPROPRIATE FOR
WHAT THE ISLAMIC STATE IS TRYING
TO ACHIEVE IN EACH OF THESE
REGIONS.
SO IN EUROPE, WE SAW A SO-CALLED
ATTACK IN TUNISIA WHERE WE KNOW
A LOT OF RADICALS HAVE BEEN, WE
SAW COORDINATED ATTACK.
IN KUWAIT WE SAW A TEC SECTARIAN
ATTACK INDICATING THE ISLAMIC
STATE IS CONTINUING TO PURSUE A
CONFLICT IN THAT PART OF THE
WORLD.
>> FROM WHAT WE KNOW NOW, THREE
ATTACKS WITHIN THREE HOURS, DO
YOU BELIEVE THESE ARE CONNECTED?
>> THEY ARE CONNECTED IN THE
SENSE THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE IS
TRYING TO CREATE ATTACKS ACROSS
THE WORLD.
I THINK IT IS VERY VERY UNLIKELY
THAT THERE WERE SOME GUY WHO WAS
COORDINATING THESE ATTACKS AND
WHO WAS SAYING WE DO ONE IN
FRANCE AND THEN WITHIN AN HOUR
WE DO ONE IN TUNISIA.
I THINK IT'S VERY UNLIKELY AND
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE FOR THAT SO
FAR.
I THINK A LOT OF THEM MIGHT HAVE
BEEN THINKING ABOUT THE FIRST
YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF THE COLORFUL
DECORATION WHICH HAPPENED ALMOST
A YEAR AGO.
WE HAVE A MOMENTUM TOWARDS THOSE
ATTACKS AND THAT MIGHT HAVE
HAPPENED.
BUT IN TERMS OF COORDINATION,
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE FOR THAT SO
FAR.
>> ISIS CERTAINLY AND VERY
RECENTLY CALLED FOR MORE ATTACKS
LIKE THIS TO HAPPEN DURING
RAMADAN.
ARE WE LIKELY TO EXPECT, SHOULD
WE BE EXPECTING MORE OF THESE TO
BE HAPPENING?
>> I THINK WE SHOULD.
ONE HAS TO BE CAREFUL WITH THAT
RECENT DECLARATION.
THAT RECENT DECK CALCULATION IS
SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED
COUNTRIES.
THOSE COUNTRIES WERE SAUDIS,
LEBANON.
NONE OF THE COUNTRIES WHERE
ATTACKS HAPPENED TODAY WERE
ACTUALLY MENTIONED IN THE CALL
THAT WAS ISSUED TWO OR THREE
DAYS AGO.
THAT IS ANOTHER INDICATOR THAT
THE ISLAMIC STATE AT A CENTRAL
LEVEL DIDN'T ACTUALLY KNOW ABOUT
THESE ATTACKS HAPPENING.
I THINK THERE IS A LOT OF
MOMENTUM TOWARDS THE ATTACKS BY
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
THEY CLEARLY WANT TO HIT WESTERN
TARGETS BECAUSE THEY BELIEVE
THAT IS PART OF ITS STRATEGY OF
ASYMMETRICAL WARFARE.
IT BELIEVES THAT BECAUSE IT IS
BEING HIT BY AMERICANS AND BY
WESTERN COUNTRIES IN ITS CORE
TERRITORY, IT HAS TO HIT BACK.
AND I THINK WE WILL SEE MORE OF
THAT FOR SURE.
>> IN THE END, DOES IT REALLY
MATTER IF ISIS DIRECTED THIS
ATTACK OR WHETHER IT WAS
INSPIRED BY ISIS.
I MEAN THE EFFECT IS THE SAME IN
THE END, RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
DEALING WITH.
WE'RE DEALING WITH A VERY
COMPLICATED COMPLEX MOVEMENT.
WE ARE HAVING IN SYRIA AND IRAQ
WERE HAVING AN ENTITY LIKE A
STATE BUT IT HAS FOLLOWERS
ACROSS THE WORLD LOOKING AT THAT
STATE AS INSPIRATION.
AND THEY ARE FOLLOWING THE
ADVICE AND THE CAUSE GIVEN BY
THAT MOVEMENT WITHOUT IT FESSLY
BEING COORDINATED.
AND IT IS DIFFICULT FOR US TO
GET -- BECAUSE WE'RE DEALING
WITH SOMETHING THAT IS
SIMULTANEOUS THINGS AT THE SAME
TIME.
WE HAVE TO EXPECT MORE OF THESE
ATTACKS IN THE FUTURE.
>> I MEAN YOU'RE DESCRIBING AN
ENEMY THAT IS A MANY HEADED
HEDRAL.
HOW SHOULD THEY GO ABOUT DOING
THIS.
>> I THINK WE NEED DIFFERENT
THINGS IN DIFFERENT PLACES.
IN WESTERN EUROPE, PRESSION, WE
NEED A CONCERTED EFFORT THAT IS
NOT ONLY THAT KIND OF TERRORISM
THAT IS ALSO THAT PREVENTION,
THAT IS ALSO DERADICALLIZATION,
INTERVENTION BECAUSE CLEARLY
AUTHORITIES IN A LOT OF EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES CANNOT DEAL WITH THE
NUMBER OF CASES THEY HAVE ON
THEIR DESKS RIGHT NOW.
IN A COUNTRY LIKE TUNISIA WHICH
HAS BEEN STRONGLY AFFECTED BY
THIS, 3,000 TUNISIAIANS HAVE
GONE TO IRAQ AS FOREIGN
FIGHTERS, THEY HAD OPEN BORDERS.
THEY ARE NOT UP TO THE JOB SO
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY HAS
TO COME IN WITH SUPPORT CAPACITY
BUILDING.
THE EUROPEAN UNIONS, THE
AMERICANS HAVE TO HELP
TUNISIAIANS GET UP TO THE JOB SO
THEY CAN PROTEKD THEIR OWN
PEOPLE.
REGARDING THE ISLAMIC STATE IT
NEEDS AN AGGRESSIVE PAUL AT THE
OF CONTAINMENT.
BOOTS ON THE GROUND THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT THE ISLAMIC STATE
IS ASKING FOR.
THEY WANT AMERICA TO SEND BOOTS
ON THE GROUND, BACK TO THE
FUTURE, BACK TO THE IRAQI
OCCUPATION.
WHAT YOU NEED TO DO IS TO KEEP
THE ISLAMIC STATE, KEEP LOSING
AND CONTINUE WHERE IT IS AND LET
IT FALL ON ITS OWN PROMISE.
AND I THINK THAT WILL TAKE SOME
SOMETIME, IT WILL TAKE STRATEGIC
PATIENCE, IT WILL HAPPY
VENTIONALLY.
>> ALL RIGHT, PETER NEUMANN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW TO
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA, AND
THE FUNERAL TODAY OF CLEMENTA
PINCKNEY, THE
PREACHER/POLITICIAN KILLED IN
LAST WEEK'S MASS SHOOTING.
PEOPLE CAME FROM FAR AND WIDE
FOR THE SERVICE, AND THE
PRESIDENT DELIVERED AN
IMPASSIONED EULOGY.
>> SONGS FILLED THE AIR WITH
SOME 6 THOUSAND PEOPLE FILLED
THE ARENA AT THE COLLEGE OF
CHARLESTON.
>> WE COME AT THIS HOUR FOR THE
HOME BOY CELEBRATION OF OUR
DEPARTED AND BELOVED BREATH REND
SENATOR CLENL CLENLT AWE PICKAL.
HE WAS KILLED LAST WEEK AT THE
CHURCH.
STATE SENATOR GERALD MALOY
SERVED WITH PINCKNEY AND AS HIS
PERSONAL LAWYER.
>> SENATOR PINCKNEY'S LAST ACT
AS A CHRISTIAN AND AS A SENATOR
WAS TO OPEN HIS DOORS TO SOMEONE
WHO HE DID NOT KNOW.
WHO HE DID NOT UNDERSTAND.
AND WHO DID NOT LOOK LIKE HIM W,
LET US NOT CLOSE THE DOORS
SENATOR PINCKNEY GAVE HIS LIFE
FOR US TO OPEN.
[APPLAUSE]
>> THE FUNERAL ALSO BROUGHT A
2KE8 GAITION OF U.S. CONGRESSMAN
TO CHARLESTON ALONG WITH NICKY
HAIL EERKS REVEREND AL SHARPTON,
JESSE JACKSON, PRESIDENT AND
MRS. OBAMA, PLUS VICE PRESIDENT
BIDEN.
THE PRESIDENT DELIVERED THE MAIN
YOU'LL PRAISING PINCKNEY'S LIFE
WHILE DECRYING RACISM AND GUN
VIOLENCE.
>> PREACHER 13, PASTOR BY 18,
PUBLIC SURINVESTMENT BY 23.
WHAT A LIFE COMMENCED TO TAKE
LIFT.
WHAT AN EXAMPLE HE SET.
WHAT A MODEL FOR HIS FAITH.
AND THEN TO LOSE HIM AT 41.
SLAIN IN HIS SANCTUARY.
WITH EIGHT WONDERFUL MEMBERS OF
HIS FLOCK.
A SACRED PLACE, THIS CHURCH.
NOT JUST FOR BLACKS, NOT JUST
FOR CHRISTIANS, BUT FOR EVERY
AMERICAN WHO CARES ABOUT THE
STEADY EXPANSION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
AND HUMAN DIGNITY IN THIS
COUNTRY.
A FOUNDATION FOR LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
THAT'S WHAT THE CHURCH MEANT.
WE DO NOT KNOW WHETHER THE
KILLER OF RENDE REVEREND PINCKND
EIGHT OTHERS KNEW ALL OF THIS
HISTORY.
BUT HE SURELY SENSED THE MEANING
OF HIS VIOLENT ACT.
WHEN ASKED HE IMAGINED HOW DOES
THAT FEEL, AND RECRIMINATION,
VIOLENCE AND SUSPICION.
AN ACT THAT HE PRESUMED WOULD
DEEPEN THE ISSUES THE TRAITS
BACK TO OUR NATION'S ORIGINAL
SIN.
OH, BUT GOD WORKS IN MYSTERIOUS
WAYS.
[APPLAUSE]
GOD HAS DIFFERENT IDEAS.
OUT OF THIS TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
GOD HAS VISITED GRACE UPON US.
FOR HE HAS ALLOWED US TO SEE
WHERE WE'VE BEEN BLIND.
FOR TOO LONG WE'VE BEEN BLIND TO
THE UNIQUE MAYHEM THAT GUN
VIOLENCE INFLICTS UPON THIS
INFORMATION.
AND ACKNOWLEDGING THE PAIN AND
LOSS OF OTHERS, EVEN AS WE
RESPECT THE TRADITIONS AND WAYS
OF LIFE THAT MAKE UP THIS
BELOVED COUNTRY, BY MAKING THE
MORAL CHOICE TO CHANGE, WE
EXPRESS GOD'S VOICE.
AMAZE-ING GRACE HOW SWEAT
THAT FAITH OF A
WRETCH LIKE ME.
>> HE WILL BE LAID TO REST.
HE WILL BE WOULD BE 41 YEARS
OLD.
>> Sreenivasan: AND TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND GERSON.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "WASHINGTON POST"
COLUMNIST MICHAEL GERSON.
FIRST TOPIC IS GOING TO BE A
TOTAL SHOCKER.
GAY MARRIAGE, WE'VE TALKED A
LITTLE BIT, THE COUNTRY
STRUGGLED WITH IT FOR QUITE
SOMEME.TI
THAT'S LEGAL ACCEPTIONS MEAN
CULTURAL ACCEPTANCE.
>> YES.
I REALLY DO THINK THIS HAS BEEN
MOVING, UNLIKE ROE V. WADE WHICH
QUITE FRANKLY 40 YEARS LATER
OPINIONS ARE STILL FROZEN AS IT
WAS MOVING TOWARD A LEGISLATIVE
SOLUTION, BUT ALWAYS THE IDEAL,
THE DEMOCRACY YOU CAN DO IT BY
POPULAR VOTE AND SO FORTH.
I DON'T THINK ANY QUESTION THAT
THE MOMENTUM BEHIND SUPPORT FOR
SAME SEX MARRIAGE FOR EQUITY WAS
JUST EXPONENTIAL.
IT WENT FROM 40% FIVE AND-A-HALF
YEARS AGO OF AMERICANS TO 60%
NOW, 70% UNDER THE AGE OF 18 TO
49.
70% OF THE WOMEN.
IT'S JUST INCREDIBLE.
I THINK THIS JUST ACCELERATES IT
AND SEALS IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HEARD
SOMEONE ON THE PROGRAM SAY THIS
CONVERSATION IS NOT OVER.
THIS COULD BE LONG LASTING.
>> WELL, I THINK I AGREE WITH
MARK ON THIS.
THIS HAS MOVED UNBELIEVABLY
SWIFTLY.
SEVEN YEARS AGO THIS SUMMER IN
AUGUST, THE CURRENT PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES SAID THAT HE
BELIEVED THAT MARRIAGE WAS A
SACRED UNION OF A MAN AND WOMAN
SEVEN YEARS AGO.
THAT VIEWPOINT HAS NOW BEEN
DECLARED ILLEGAL AS A BASIS FOR
LAW IN ALL 50 STATES IN SEVEN
YEARS.
I DON'T KNOW OF ANOTHER
PRECEDENT FOR THAT.
THAT'S PRETTY EXTRAORDINARY.
IF YOU STEP BACK A LITTLE BIT
THERE ARE BROAD CULTURAL REASONS
FOR THIS NOT JUST THE COURT.
BUT THERE'S REALLY A STRATEGY OF
COMING OUT IN WHICH MORE
AMERICANS NOW KNOW PEOPLE WHO
ARE GAY.
WHICH I THINK HAS CHANGED THIS
DEBATE IN MANY WAYS, CHANGED IN
SEXUAL MOWERS YOU SEE IN
HOLLYWOOD AND OTHER PLACES THAT
HAVE TAKEN PLACE OVER THE LAST
FEW DECADES.
CHANGING STRATEGY IN THE COURTS,
WANTING TO JOIN A BOURGEOIS
INSTITUTION, MARRIAGE AND MAKE A
CONSERVATIVE ARGUMENT TO PEOPLE
LIKE ANDREW SULLIVAN AND JOHN
LAUSCH, THEY HAVE ARGUMENTS FOR
STABILITY AND COMMITMENT.
THIS WAS AN ARGUMENT THAT
APPEARED TO MIDDLE AMERICA AND
IT IS THE ARGUMENT THAT WON IN
THIS COURT TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IT MIGHT HAS
BEEN APPLIANCE FOR FREEDOM NOT
HERITAGE FOUNDATION.
NONE OF THIS HAPPENS IN VACUUM,
WE'RE IN PRESIDENTIAL CYCLE AND
AS RESPECTED THERE ARE
RESPONSES.
THE GROUP FOR PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES FOR 2016 ALSO REACTED
TO THE POSITION.
HILLARY CLINTON AND BERNIE
SARNTDZ PRAISED THE RULING.
FOR THE REPUBLICANS IT'S A VERY
DIFFERENT STORY.
STORY.BUSH THOUGHT IT
BEST FTLE TO STATE AND CALLED
FOR LIBERTIES.
OTHERS LIKE SCOTT WALKER CALLED
FOR A NEW CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT TO OPPOSE IT.
IN A STATE HE SAYS FIVE
UNELECTED JUDGES HAVE TAKEN IT
UPON THEMSELVES TO REDEFINE THE
INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE.
THE ONLY ALTERNATIVE LEFT IS TO
SUPPORT AN AMENDMENT TO THE U.S.
CONDISOOTIOCONSTITUTION TO DEFIE
STATES.
MARCO RUBIO CALLED IT THE NEW
LAW OF THE LAND.
WHILE I DISAGREE WITH THIS
DECISION WE LIVE IN A REPUBLIC
AND MUST ABIDE BY THE LAW.
IN THE YEARS AHEAD IT IS MY HOPE
EACH SIDE WILL RESPECT THE
DIGNITY OF THE OTHER.
THIS WEEK, BEYOND THE WISDOM OF
KOONCH, VISION IN ITS DECISIONS,
DID AN ENORMOUS POLITICAL FAVOR
IN TWO INTS T INSTANCES TO REPU.
IT LETS THE REPUBLICANS OFF THE
HOOK ON THIS ISSUE.
THIS IS A CENTRAL PLANK OF THE
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM, SUPPORT FOR
MARRIAGE BEING 2W-7 BETWEENNE ON
AND ONE WOMAN.
THIS WAS REPUBLICAN SOLID CREED.
AND THIS POSITION PREVAILS AND
HE MAKES THAT AND HIS SUPPORTERS
AND OTHER REPUBLICANS MAKE IT A
LITMUS TEST ISSUE IN THE
NOMINATING PROCESS OF 2016,
WHOEVER THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE
WHO EMERGES FROM THAT WILL BE
HURT AND DAMAGED IN THE GENERAL
ELECTION OF 2016.
TO HAVING HAD TO SATISFY THE,
THIS LITMUS TEST.
I JUST THINK THE SAME THING IS
TRUE ON HEALTHCARE WHICH I
CERTAINLY GET TO THAT THEY LET
THE REPUBLICANS, THAT THEY DON'T
HAVE TO HAVE ON THEIR HANDS THAT
ALL OF A SUDDEN SIX OR SEVEN
MILLION AMERICANS ARE STRIPPED
OF THE HEALTHCARE.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION POLITICALLY.
>> Sreenivasan: I AGREE IF
THAT LITMUS TEST IS PLOITD HERE
THERE'S A POLITICAL DETRIMENT.
I THINK MARCO RUBIO AND JEB BUSH
CAME OUT WITH THE MORE
SUSTAINABLE DECISION SAYING THEY
DISAGREED WITH THE DECISION BUT
IT'S THE LAW OF THE LAND NOW WE
NEED TO MOVE ON TO ROW SPEC
LIBERTY.
A DIFFERENT SET OF ISSUES IN THE
LIBERTY IN THE AFTERMATH OF THIS
COURT DECISION.
>> I THINK THAT'S THE
SUSTAINABLE DECISION THE ONE THE
NOMINEE IS LIKELY TO HAVE.
BUT WALKER HAS TAKEN A DIFFERENT
WAY.
IT'S ANALOGOUS TO THE DEBATE ON
ABORTION WHERE PEOPLE SUPPORTED
THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
THAT WAS NEVER GOING TO HAPPEN.
IT BECAME LIKE A SALUTE, LIKE A
MEANINGLESS GESTURE.
I THINK THAT'S TRUE IN THIS CASE
AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: SITTING GEARS
TO THE CONFEDERATE FLAG.
SINCE WE SPOKE LAST WEEK REALLY
THE TOPIC WAS ABOUT THE TRAGEDY.
THROUGHOUT THIS WEEK WE SEE
RETAILERS MAKING SHIFTS, STATES
TAKING THIS EMBLEM OFF THE FLAG.
WHAT DOES THIS MOMENT MEAN FOR
THE COUNTRY?
>> FOR THE COUNTRY, FIRST OF ALL
I WAS ABSOLUTELY WRONG A WEEK
AGO WHEN I THOUGHT JUDY ASKED
ABOUT THE FLAG AND I DID NOT SEE
IT EMERGING AS AN ISSUE.
I THINK TWO THINGS HAPPENED.
I THINK THE EXAMPLE THAT WE SAW
BY THE SURVIVING MEMBERS OF THE
FAMILY OF THOSE WHO WERE
SLAUGHTERED AT THE EMANUEL
CHURCH, THE DIGNITY, THE
FORGIVENESS THEY DEMONSTRATED.
WE DON'T HAVE FORGIVENESS MUCH
IN OUR SOCIETY.
WE DON'T HAVE IT IN WASHINGTON
D.C., WE DON'T VISIT ON WALL
STREET OR FACULTY CLUBS OR
UNIVERSITIES.
FORGIVENESS IS A RARE AND VALUED
BUT INCREASINGLY RARE COMMODITY.
PEOPLE SHOWED, I THINK THEY SET
ASIDE ALMOST A POLITICAL
EARTHQUAKE BY THEIR
DEMONSTRATION.
AND THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH
CAROLINA I THOUGHT SHOWED
ENORMOUS COURAGE AND LEADERSHIP.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS A -- I MEAN
ALABAMA, KENTUCKY, MISSISSIPPI,
GEORGIA.
IT'S A REMARKABLE REMARKABLE
RESPONSE.
UNPLANNED AND UNORGANIZED AND
SPONTANEOUS BUT TOTALLY GENERAL
WULS AND I THINK SPARKED BY THE
FAMILIES OF THE SURVIVORS.
>> NICKY DIDN'T HAVE THIS
POSITION A FEW YEARS AGO.
IS THIS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
REPUBLICANS TO CHANGE THEIR
MINDS.
>> I THINK IT COULD IN MANY
WAYS.
I COULD NOT AGREE WITH MARK
MOORE.
THIS IS A GROUP OF PEOPLE IN
CHARLESTON WITH FAMILIES AND A
CHURCH THAT SURROUNDED THIS
GROUP OF PEOPLE.
THAT HAVE RAISED THE STANDARDS
AND IDEALS OF EVERYONE AROUND
THEM THROUGH THEIR CONDUCT.
YOU HAD POLITICIANS IN
REPUBLICAN POLITICIANS IN SOUTH
CAROLINA AND OTHER PLACES.
YOU CAN JUST SEE IT IN THEIR
MIND THEY'RE SAYING YOU KNOW,
I'M A CHRISTIAN.
THIS IS A HORRIBLE SYMBOL OF
EXCLUSION AND VIOLENCE.
I SHOULD HAVE KNOWN BETTER OVER
THE YEARS.
AND NICKY GAVE PEOPLE AN OPENING
WHEN SHE OPENED THE DOOR TO DO
THIS, A LOT OF REPUBLICANS
WALKED THROUGH.
THEY'VE BEEN CLEARLY
UNCOMFORTABLE FOR THIS FOR
YEARS.
IT HAD BEEN AN ISSUE BECAUSE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA'S POSITION IN THE
PRIMARY SEASON.
THESE CANDIDATES HAD TO COME
THROUGH AND SAY THINGS THEY
DIDN'T WANT TO SAY FOR THE MOST
PART.
THAT'S WHAT MCCAIN EVENTUALLY
SAID.
BUT THIS GAVE I THINK AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR REPUBLICANS TO
GET OUT FROM UNDER A BURDEN THAT
THEY DID NOT REALLY WANT.
>> Sreenivasan: JUST OFF
CAMERA WHEN WE WERE TALKING ALSO
THE MOMENT WE SAW WITH OBAMA
SINGING AMAZING GRACE.
WE WERE BOTH COMMENTING ON IT WE
WANT TO SHOUT OUT TO THE
AUDIENCE TOO BUT THERE'S STILL
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THIS
PRESIDENT TO DO SOMETHING THAT
NO ONE ELSE CAN.
>> MICHAEL KNOW HILLS FAR BETTER
THAN I DO.
A PERSON IN TIMES OF TRAGEDY AND
THIS IS A TIME OF NATIONAL
TRAGEDY, IS THE COMFORTER IN
TRUTH.
WORDS AND PRESIDENTIAL WORDS IN
A TIME LIKE THIS, WHETHER IT'S
THE TRAGEDY IN RONALD REAGAN OR
AT OKLAHOMA CITY WITH BILL
CLINTON.
THE PRESIDENT I THOUGHT STEPPED
UP AND SPOKE TO AND FOR THE
NATION TODAY.
OFTEN THAT INVOLVES FAITH.
A BROUGHT KIND OF FAITH THE
INJUSTICE YOU SEE BEFORE YOUR
EYES IS NOT THE FINAL WORD.
THERE'S ACTUALLY AN ORDER OF
JUSTICE AND HOPE THAT LIES UPON
AND BEYOND THE CIRCUMSTANCES
THAT YOU'RE SEEING.
AND I THINK THAT'S OFTEN WHAT A
PRESIDENT PROVIDES, SOME VISION
THAT YOU KNOW, WHAT YOU'RE
SEEING IN THE MOMENT IS NOT
FINAL.
>> Sreenivasan: NOT A SMALL
ONE, THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
COULD A NEW PRESIDENT ATTEMPT TO
DISMANTLE THIS LAW OR HAS THIS
FINALLY BEEN SETTLED?
>> I THINK IT HAS BEEN SETTLED.
I THINK NOW THE REPUBLICANS
AGAIN WERE GIVEN A POLITICAL
LIFESAVER BY THE COURT.
NOW THE DEMOCRATS HAVE TO MAKE
IT WORK.
I MEAN IT'S A SERIOUS PROGRAM
WITH SERIOUS PROBLEMS.
LOW INCOME PEOPLE WHO ARE
FINALLY COVERED BUT NOT ENOUGH.
MENTAL INCOME, THE HIGHER INCOME
PEOPLE INTO THE EXCHANGES.
AND JUST I THINK, BUT I DON'TNY-
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S THE
STRUCTURE HERE OF OBAMACARE BUT
I THINK THE PRESIDENT HAS
SUCCEEDED IN IMBEDDING A SERIES
OF EXPECTATIONS IN OUR COMMON
LIFE THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS
GOING TO HELP PROVE THESE
CONDIONSIT OR WITH COVERAGE OR
INSURANCE COVERAGE.
IF REPUBLICANS WANT TO GET RID
OF OBAMACARE, THEY WILL NOW HAVE
TO REPLACE THAT SYSTEM IN SOME
IMPORTANT WAY.
AND THAT IS ACCOMPLISHMENT OF
THE PRESIDENT.
YOU KNOW, HE'S FORCED HIS
OPPONENTS THAT IF THEY WANT TO
GET RID OF OBAMACARE, THEY'RE
GOING TO NEED TO DO SOMETHING
ELSE.
>> HARI, I JUST POINT, IT'S 22
YEARS SINCE BILL CLINTON AND
HILLARY CLINTON INTRODUCED
HEALTHCARE.
WE'VE BEEN WAITING FOR A
REPUBLICAN PLAN SINCE.
IT'S NOTHING THAT THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE SAID THIS IS
OUR PLAN.
>> THEY'RE NOT RALLIED AROUND
IT.
>> SERIOUS POLICY WORK.
>> I'M NOT QUESTIONING THAT.
BUT THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
CONCEPT AND REALITY, AND I JUST
HADN'T SEEN.
THE FACT IS BARACK OBAMA PUT A
LOT OF DEMOCRATS AT RISK
POSSIBLY HIS OWN CAREER TO PASS
THIS.
I DON'T SEE ANYTHING APPROACHING
THAT IN THE SENSE OF UNITY ON
THE OTHER SIDE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS
SOMETHING YOU SEE ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
>> REPUBLICANS BELIEVE THAT
HEALTHCARE IS STILL AN ADVANTAGE
FOR THEM.
THIS IS A SYSTEM WHERE PUTTING
HANDS ON IS INCREASING BUT
PEOPLE AREN'T HAPPY WITH THEIR
CHOICE OF SERVICES.
REPUBLICANS BEEVE LITHEY STILL
HAVE GOOD ISSUE HERE.
OBAMACARE IS STILL NOT WOOLDLY
POPULAR IN -- WILDLY POPULAR IN
AMERICA BUT IT IS GOING TO BE
DIFFICULT TO REPLACE THIS
SYSTEM.
IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE A MANDATE,
ELECTORAL MANDATE, A REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENT, REPUBLICAN HOUSE AND
SENATE AND SOME SERIOUS POLICY
WORK.
THAT'S A LOT TO COME TOGETHER.
>> OPPOSITION IS WANING.
PUBLIC OPPOSITION TO THE
OBAMACARE AFFORDABLE CARIN CARE.
IT'S A GROWING ACCEPTIONS.
NOT MEDICARE OR SOCIAL SECURITY
BUT I THINK IT'S BECOMING, YOU
HAVE TO REPLACE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: MARK SHIELDS,
MICHAEL GERSON, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE TODAY THE
SUPREME COURT RECOGNIZED THE
RIGHT OF GAY PEOPLE TO MARRY,
THE HISTORY OF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT'S TREATMENT OF GAYS
AND LESBIANS HAS NOT ALWAYS BEEN
SO FAVORABLE.
IN THE NEW YAHOO! DOCUMENTARY
"UNIQUELY NASTY: THE
GOVERNMENT'S WAR ON GAYS,"
REPORTER MICHAEL ISIKOFF
EXPLORES A DARK CHAPTER OF
AMERICA'S PAST.
IT'S STRIKING TODAY, TO SEE HOW
MUCH THE COUNTRY'S CHANGED.
>> EVEN IF THERE WERE ONLY ONE
COMMUNIST IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT, EVEN IF THERE WERE
ONLY ONE COMMUNIST IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT THERE WILL STILL BE
ONE COMMUNIST TOO MANY.
>> Reporter: THE 50'S.
AMERICANS ARE GRIPPED WITH FEAR
OF COMMUNISTS.
BUT THERE'S ALSO HYSTERIA OF
WHAT WAS PORTRAYED AS A AN
EQUALLY SIN TER PROAR TAIL OF
GRUFT.
>> SEXUALITY WAS CONSIDERED A
HORRIBLE THING THAT IN THE
DECADE IF THEY DISCOVERED A GAY
PERSON IN GOVERNMENT COULD
BLACKMAI THELM INTO STATE
SECRETS.
NOW THERE WAS NEVER EVER ANY
EVENCEID WHATSOEVER THAT ANYBODY
WAS EVER BLACK MAILED BUT THAT
DIDN'T MATTER.
>> JUNE 20TH, 1951.
UPON THE SEAT OF AN ALLEGATION
THAT A PRESIDENT OR FORMER
EMPLOYEE OF ANY BRANCH OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT IS A
SEX DEYOUTUBE DEVIATE.
>> THEY COME ACROSS A STARTLING
DOCUMENT FOR THE FIRST TIME.
>> IT'S A PROGRAM OF 1951.
WE'VE GOT J. EDGAR HOOVER ON OUR
SIDE.
WE'RE SEEING HIM PROVIDE HIS
GRAND OF SICK OBSESSIVE FOCUS ON
GAY AMERICA.
>> EACH SUPERVISOR WILL BE HELD
PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE TO
UNDERLINE IN GREEN PENCIL THE
NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
ALLEGED TO BE SEX DEVIATES.
SIGNED J. EDGAR HOOVER.
>> HE'S INSTRUCTING HIS PEOPLE
TO BECOME PLANTS IN THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO IDENTIFY POTENTIAL
ACCUSED HOMOSEXUALS.
REPORT BACK TO HIM AND THEN LET
THEM INVESTIGATE.
>> THE PLANS WERE ALSO
INSTRUCTED TO DELETE THE NAMES
OF GAYS, IN SOME CASES
ANONYMOUSLY TO THEIR EMPLOYERS.
>> DOUG CHARLES IS THE AUTHOR OF
A NEW BOOK, HOOVER'S WAR ON
GAYS.
>> IT WAS AN EFFORT TO SILENCE
THEM, AN EFFORT TO RUIN YOUR
LIVES.
IF YOU WERE EXPOSED TO GAYS IN
THE 1950'S OR 1960'S YOUR LIFE
WAS OVER.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN WATCH
THE ENTIRE DOCUMENTARY AT
yahoo.com.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE: A NASA
SPACECRAFT'S LONG-AWAITED FLYBY
OF PLUTO IS LESS THAN THREE
WEEKS AWAY, AND SCIENTISTS HAVE
ONLY DAYS LEFT TO MANEUVER IT
AROUND POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS
SPACE DEBRIS.
READ HOW THEY'RE PREPARING FOR
THE JULY 14TH EVENT, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> AS THE SUMMATION'S TECTONIC
PLATES SEEM TO SHIFT OVER SAME
SEX MARRIAGE, HEALTHCARE,
HOUSING DISCRIMINATION AND A
REVIVED DEBATE OVER THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG AND RACISM, WE
OFFER YOU A LOOK BACK AT A
PIVOTAL WEEK AND LOOK FORWARD TO
WHAT COMES NEXT.
TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON WEEK.
HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW'S
EDITION OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
LOOKS AT CHRONIC, LONG-TERM
EXPOSURE TO STRESS, KNOWN AS
"TOXIC STRESS" AND THE PROFOUND
CONSEQUENCES IT CAN HAVE ON THE
BODIES AND BRAINS OF YOUNG
CHILDREN.
>> TOXIC STRESS CAN DISRUPT
BRAIN CIRCUITS THAT WILL CREATE
A WEAKER FOUNDATION FOR A LOT OF
CIRCUITRY THAT'S ESSENTIAL FOR
LEARNING, FOR MEMORY, FOR
SOLVING PROBLEMS, FOR FOLLOWING
RULES, FOR CONTROLLING IMPULSES.
>> ANYONE CAN EXPERIENCE TOXIC
STRESS, BIAS COUGH SAYS LONG
LIFE EFFECTS ON CAN CAUSE IT.
THEY CAN LIVE IN NEIGHBORHOODS
WITH HIGH RATES OF CRIME, DRUG
ABUSE AND FAILING SCHOOLS.
>> TOXIC STRESS HAS TO DO WITH
EXTENT TO WHICH ADULTS IN A
CHILD'S LIFE IS BUFFERING THEIR
CHILD FROM THE STRESSES OF THE
FAMILY CHANGING THE CHILD'S
ABILITY TO COPE AND ADAPT
BUILDING RESELL YENS.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND AN EDITORS NOTE BEFORE WE
GO: IN LAST NIGHT'S NEWS
SUMMARY, DURING A REPORT ABOUT A
CALIFORNIA ASSEMBLY VOTE TO
REQUIRE VACCINATIONS FOR SCHOOL
CHILDREN, WE SAID, "THE BILL
GAINED MOMENTUM AFTER A MEASLES
OUTBREAK THAT STARTED AT
DISNEYLAND AND KILLED MORE THAN
100 PEOPLE."
THAT IS INCORRECT.
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE WERE
SICKENED IN THE MEASLES
OUTBREAK, NOT KILLED.
WE REGRET THE ERROR.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.